type/__ssrq_easy_rsa_ca/man.rst, before:

cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_ca(7)
===============================

NAME
----
cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_ca - Build an Easy-RSA Certificate Authority (CA).


DESCRIPTION
-----------
This type sets up an Easy-RSA CA for the PKI directory specified by the
``--pki`` parameter.

As a prerequisite the :strong:`cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki`\ (7) must have
created a PKI structure in said directory beforehand.

To have multiple CAs it is required to create one PKI directory structure (using
:strong:`cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki`\ (7)) for each CA.

The optional parameters have no effect on an already existing CA.

The behaviour of multiple objects with the same ``--pki`` is **undefined**.

**NB:** This type will neither update an existing CA's subject nor other
parameters if the object's parameters are changed at a later point in time.


REQUIRED PARAMETERS
-------------------
pki
    Full path of the corresponding Easy-RSA PKI structure (as created by
    :strong:`cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki`\ (7)).


OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
-------------------
auto-sign-with
    If ``--type sub`` is set and the parent CA is also managed using easy-rsa on
    the same machine, this CA will be automatically signed with the CA defined
    in the "value"'s directory.
common-name
    The Common Name (CN) for this CA.

    Defaults to ``__object_id``.
digest
    The digest to use for the CA.

    Valid choices include: ``md5``, ``sha1``, ``sha256``, ``sha224``,
    ``sha384``, ``sha512``
key-size
    value for ``EASYRSA_KEY_SIZE`` (keysize in bits to generate)
type
    The type of CA to create.

    Acceptable values:

    root
        Create a self-signed root CA. (probably what you want)
    sub
        Create a sub/intermediate CA.

        | The CA will not be signed automatically.

        | If the parent CA is also managed using this type on the same machine,
          the sub CA can be automatically signed by using the
          ``--auto-sign-with`` parameter.
        | Otherwise this type will create a CSR to be signed by the parent CA
          and installed to this machine manually.

    Defaults to: ``root``


The following optional parameters correspond to the default values in
organisational fields (only used if the PKI's DN mode is set to ``org``):

country
    value for ``EASYRSA_REQ_COUNTRY`` (DN country)
province
    value for ``EASYRSA_REQ_PROVINCE`` (DN state/province)
city
    value for ``EASYRSA_REQ_CITY`` (DN city/locality)
org
    value for ``EASYRSA_REQ_ORG`` (DN organization)
org-unit
    value for ``EASYRSA_REQ_OU`` (DN organizational unit)
email
    value for ``EASYRSA_REQ_EMAIL`` (DN email)


BOOLEAN PARAMETERS
------------------
None.


EXAMPLES
--------

.. code-block:: sh

    # Set up a CA with common name "Example_CA"
    require=__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki/etc/easy-rsa/pki \
    __ssrq_easy_rsa_ca Example_CA \
        --pki /etc/easy-rsa/pki

    # Set up a CA with a space in its common name
    require=__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki/etc/easy-rsa/pki \
    __ssrq_easy_rsa_ca Example_CA \
        --pki /etc/easy-rsa/pki \
        --common-name 'My Example CA'

    # Set up a sub CA (and sign it using another CA)
    require=__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki/etc/easy-rsa/sub \
    __ssrq_easy_rsa_ca Example_Sub_CA \
        --pki /etc/easy-rsa/sub \
        --common-name 'My Sub CA' \
        --type sub \
        --auto-sign-with /etc/easy-rsa/pki


SEE ALSO
--------
:strong:`cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki`\ (7),
:strong:`cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_cert`\ (7)


AUTHORS
-------
| Marko Seric <marko.seric--@--ssrq-sds-fds.ch>
| Beni Ruef <bernhard.ruef--@--ssrq-sds-fds.ch>
| Dennis Camera <dennis.camera--@--riiengineering.ch>


COPYING
-------
Copyright \(C) 2020-2023 the AUTHORS.
You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General
Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of
the License, or (at your option) any later version.

Commit message:

Experiments with password-protected CA

type/__ssrq_easy_rsa_ca/man.rst, after:

cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_ca(7)
===============================

NAME
----
cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_ca - Build an Easy-RSA Certificate Authority (CA).


DESCRIPTION
-----------
This type sets up an Easy-RSA CA for the PKI directory specified by the
``--pki`` parameter.

As a prerequisite the :strong:`cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki`\ (7) must have
created a PKI structure in said directory beforehand.

To have multiple CAs it is required to create one PKI directory structure (using
:strong:`cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki`\ (7)) for each CA.

The optional parameters have no effect on an already existing CA.

The behaviour of multiple objects with the same ``--pki`` is **undefined**.

**NB:** This type will neither update an existing CA's subject nor other
parameters if the object's parameters are changed at a later point in time.


REQUIRED PARAMETERS
-------------------
pki
    Full path of the corresponding Easy-RSA PKI structure (as created by
    :strong:`cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki`\ (7)).


OPTIONAL PARAMETERS
-------------------
auto-sign-with
    If ``--type sub`` is set and the parent CA is also managed using easy-rsa on
    the same machine, this CA will be automatically signed with the CA defined
    in the "value"'s directory.
common-name
    The Common Name (CN) for this CA.

    Defaults to ``__object_id``.
digest
    The digest to use for the CA.

    Valid choices include: ``md5``, ``sha1``, ``sha256``, ``sha224``,
    ``sha384``, ``sha512``
key-size
    value for ``EASYRSA_KEY_SIZE`` (keysize in bits to generate)
password
    password to use to secure the generated CA's private key.

    If the special value ``stdin`` is used, the password will be read from the
    object's standard input. The password will then only be copied to the target
    if it is needed and be deleted as soon as it is not required anymore.
    Note that only one of the parameters ``--password`` and
    ``--parent-password`` can use ``stdin``.

    Defaults to: *no password*
parent-password
    password to decrypt the parent CA's private key.
    This parameter is used for sub CAs only and is required for
    ``--auto-sign-with`` if the parent CA's private key is protected using a
    password.

    If the special value ``stdin`` is used, the password will be read from the
    object's standard input. The password will then only be copied to the target
    if it is needed and be deleted as soon as it is not required anymore.
    Note that only one of the parameters ``--password`` and
    ``--parent-password`` can use ``stdin``.

    Defaults to: *no password*
type
    The type of CA to create.

    Acceptable values:

    root
        Create a self-signed root CA. (probably what you want)
    sub
        Create a sub/intermediate CA.

        | The CA will not be signed automatically.

        | If the parent CA is also managed using this type on the same machine,
          the sub CA can be automatically signed by using the
          ``--auto-sign-with`` parameter.
        | Otherwise this type will create a CSR to be signed by the parent CA
          and installed to this machine manually.

    Defaults to: ``root``


The following optional parameters correspond to the default values in
organisational fields (only used if the PKI's DN mode is set to ``org``):

country
    value for ``EASYRSA_REQ_COUNTRY`` (DN country)
province
    value for ``EASYRSA_REQ_PROVINCE`` (DN state/province)
city
    value for ``EASYRSA_REQ_CITY`` (DN city/locality)
org
    value for ``EASYRSA_REQ_ORG`` (DN organization)
org-unit
    value for ``EASYRSA_REQ_OU`` (DN organizational unit)
email
    value for ``EASYRSA_REQ_EMAIL`` (DN email)


BOOLEAN PARAMETERS
------------------
None.


EXAMPLES
--------

.. code-block:: sh

    # Set up a CA with common name "Example_CA"
    require=__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki/etc/easy-rsa/pki \
    __ssrq_easy_rsa_ca Example_CA \
        --pki /etc/easy-rsa/pki

    # Set up a CA with a space in its common name
    require=__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki/etc/easy-rsa/pki \
    __ssrq_easy_rsa_ca Example_CA \
        --pki /etc/easy-rsa/pki \
        --common-name 'My Example CA'

    # Set up a sub CA (and sign it using another CA)
    require=__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki/etc/easy-rsa/sub \
    __ssrq_easy_rsa_ca Example_Sub_CA \
        --pki /etc/easy-rsa/sub \
        --common-name 'My Sub CA' \
        --type sub \
        --auto-sign-with /etc/easy-rsa/pki


SEE ALSO
--------
:strong:`cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_pki`\ (7),
:strong:`cdist-type__ssrq_easy_rsa_cert`\ (7)


AUTHORS
-------
| Marko Seric <marko.seric--@--ssrq-sds-fds.ch>
| Beni Ruef <bernhard.ruef--@--ssrq-sds-fds.ch>
| Dennis Camera <dennis.camera--@--riiengineering.ch>


COPYING
-------
Copyright \(C) 2020-2023 the AUTHORS.
You can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General
Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of
the License, or (at your option) any later version.
